We know to develop and expose RESTful web services with JAX-RS,
and we've seen how to interact with the BookEndpoint using an HTTP client,
but this is not enough.
Now we want to test our BookEndpoint using Arquillian.
So we need an API to automate HTTP invocation.
JAX-RS comes with a client API,
this client API allows us to make HTTP requests to
our remove REST service easily,
despite all the low level details of the HTTP protocol.
It is a fluent building API that uses a small number of classes and interfaces.
The main entry point for the API is the client interface.
The client interface manages and configures HTTP connection
and is created using the ClientBuilder.
The client interface is a builder of WebTarget.
A WebTarget represents a distinct URI from which we can invoke requests on.
Here the target is http://www.
bookstore.
com/books/123.
Now that we have a URI to target, we need to build our HTTP request.
Here we just build a simple HTTP GET asking for JSON representation.
Once we have the invocation object,
we then need to call the invoke method to actually invoke the
remote REST service and get a response object back.
This might look a bit verbose, but it is a way to explain how the API works.
Thanks to the builder API and some shortcuts we can write the
same behavior in a single line of code.
We create a new client, target a specific URI,
set the MIME type to JSON, and execute an HTTP GET,
and if we need to delete a resource with an HTTP DELETE,
the API easily allows us to do that.
The response class allows the consumer to have some control over the
HTTP response returned from the RESTful web service.
With its API we can check the HTTP status,
the HTTP length, date or return MIME type.
But most of the time what we really want from a response is the
entity sent from the RESTful web service.
Let's say we do a GET on the book 123,
to get the JSON representation of this book we invoke the readEntity method.
This reads the message input stream and will return a string.
But if we know that JSON represents a book, then JAX-RS will automatically unmarshal the JSON stream into our book entity.